+----------------------------------+------------------------+----------+
| ![](vertopal_                    |                        |          |
| c215648851854ded800e93c37ed6da44 |                        |          |
| /media/image1.png){width="2.4in" |                        |          |
| height="0.5881944444444445in"}   |                        |          |
|                                  |                        |          |
| SCHOOL OF INFORMATION AND        |                        |          |
| TECHNOLOGY                       |                        |          |
+==================================+========================+==========+
| NAME: Asido, Gabbriel Joaquin    | DATE                   | /50Â      |
|                                  | PERFORMED:12/04/2024   |          |
| Laita,Joel Jr. C                 |                        |          |
+----------------------------------+------------------------+----------+
| Section:IDC1                     | DATE                   |          |
|                                  | SUBMITTED:12/04/2024   |          |
+----------------------------------+------------------------+----------+

1.  # SYSADM1 -- Capacity Management & Planning

    # Part 2. Network Scalability Analysis

Recall the e-commerce website scenario we discussed earlier. Given the
expected surge in traffic, analyze the provided network topology
diagram. Identify potential bottlenecks and areas where scalability
might be a concern. Propose specific strategies to improve the
network\'s scalability and performance to ensure a seamless user
experience during the peak traffic period. Consider factors such as
increased user demand, new applications, and security threats.

![](vertopal_c215648851854ded800e93c37ed6da44/media/image3.png){width="3.226042213473316in"
height="2.6562478127734033in"}

**Problems with the Network Design:**

-   **Single Point of Failure:** If the main switch breaks, the whole
    > network stops working.

-   **Slow Speeds:** The network might get slow during busy times.

-   **Weak Servers:** The servers might not be powerful enough to handle
    > the workload.

-   **No Security:** The network is vulnerable to attacks.

**What to Do:**

-   **Redundancy:** Add extra connections between the main switch and
    > other switches to prevent outages.

-   **Security:** Install a firewall to protect the network from
    > attacks.

-   **Scalability:** Use technology to make the network more efficient
    > and able to handle growth.

-   **Monitoring:** Keep a close eye on the network to spot and fix
    > problems quickly.

> **Proposed Network Design**

![](vertopal_c215648851854ded800e93c37ed6da44/media/image2.png){width="5.211141732283465in"
height="4.944305555555555in"}

## 

**Scalability Planning**

1.  **Redundancy:**

    -   Have redundant links between core switches and distribution
        > switches.

    -   Use redundant core switches to provide fault tolerance.

    -   Use redundant power supplies and cooling systems for critical
        > devices.

2.  **Load Balancing:**

    -   Apply load balancing techniques to distribute traffic across
        > multiple servers.

    -   Consider using Layer 4 or Layer 7 load balancers to optimize the
        > distribution of traffic.

3.  **Network Virtualization:**

    -   Use VLANs to segment traffic and improve security.

4.  **Modular Design:**

    -   Design the network with a modular approach to allow for easy
        > expansion and upgrades.

    -   Utilize standardized hardware and software for ease of
        > management and maintenance.

**Evaluation of Solutions**

-   **Redundancy:** While redundancy improves reliability, it can
    > increase initial costs. However, the long-term benefits in terms
    > of reduced downtime and improved performance often outweigh the
    > upfront costs.

-   **Load Balancing:** Load balancers can distribute traffic
    > effectively, but they require careful configuration and
    > management.

-   **Network Virtualization:** Network virtualization can optimize
    > resource utilization and simplify network management, but it can
    > introduce additional complexity.

-   **Modular Design:** A modular design can simplify network management
    > and facilitate future expansion, but it may require more upfront
    > planning and investment.

**Proposed Design**

**Core Layer:**

-   Implement redundant links between the core switches using protocols
    > like Spanning Tree Protocol (STP) or more advanced protocols like
    > Protocol Independent Protocol (PIP).

-   Consider using high-performance switches with sufficient capacity
    > and redundancy.

**Distribution Layer:**

-   Add redundant links between distribution switches and core switches.

-   Consider using Layer 3 switches for advanced routing capabilities
    > and improved scalability.

-   Implement VLANs to segment traffic and improve security.

**Access Layer:**

-   Use high-performance switches with sufficient port density.

-   Implement VLANs to segment traffic and improve security.

-   Consider using Network Access Control (NAC) to enforce security
    > policies.

**Security:**

-   Deploy a firewall to protect the network from external threats.

-   Implement intrusion detection systems (IDS) and intrusion prevention
    > systems (IPS) to monitor network traffic and block malicious
    > activity.

**Monitoring and Management:**

-   Use network management tools to monitor network performance,
    > identify potential issues, and proactively address them.

-   Implement automated provisioning and configuration tools to simplify
    > network management.

**Evaluation and Justification**

The proposed design addresses the recognized scalability and security
concerns, as redundancy and load balancing improve reliability and
performance while network virtualization simplifies management and
optimizes utilization of resources. High-performance device usage will
ensure that, in a network, capacity can increase to meet continually
increasing traffic loads. Costs associated with these improvements take
time but are worthwhile by long-term benefits of high performance,
reliability, and security.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Criteria          Excellent \| 10pts Good \| 7pts        Needs Improvement \|
                                                           4pts
  ----------------- ------------------ ------------------- ---------------------
  **Network         Accurately         Identifies key      Identifies some basic
  Analysis**        identifies         network components  network components
                    potential          and some potential  but lacks a
                    bottlenecks,       bottlenecks.        comprehensive
                    security risks,                        analysis.
                    and capacity                           
                    limitations.                           

  **Scalability     Proposes multiple  Proposes some       Proposes limited
  Planning**        relevant solutions relevant            scalability
                    and provides       scalability         strategies.
                    detailed           strategies but      
                    explanations,      lacks detail.       
                    including                              
                    potential                              
                    drawbacks and                          
                    benefits.                              

  **Evaluation of   Proposes           Provides a basic    Does not evaluate the
  Solutions**       comprehensive      evaluation of the   proposed solutions or
                    scalability        proposed solutions, provides a
                    strategies,        but lacks depth.    superficial
                    including specific                     evaluation.
                    recommendations                        
                    for hardware                           
                    upgrades, software                     
                    configurations,                        
                    and network                            
                    optimizations.                         

  **Proposed        Provides a         Provides a basic    Does not provide a
  Design**          detailed and       design but lacks    clear and detailed
                    well-justified     specific details    design.
                    design, including  and justifications. 
                    network diagrams,                      
                    configuration                          
                    details, and                           
                    implementation                         
                    plans.                                 

  **Evaluation and  Provides a         Provides a basic    Does not evaluate the
  Justification**   thorough           evaluation of the   proposed solutions or
                    evaluation of the  proposed solutions, provides a
                    proposed           but lacks depth.    superficial
                    solutions,                             evaluation
                    considering                            
                    factors like cost,                     
                    complexity, and                        
                    potential impact.                      

  Score:                                                   /50
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
